The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY – STATEMENT OF
MOD POLICY
Introduction
1. Intellectual property [IP] arises from any intellectual pursuit and
covers a diverse range including inventions, designs, software,
technical reports, know-how and confidential information, as well as
books, music, architecture, films and photographs. Intellectual
property rights [IPR] comprise the legal framework to protect IP patents, registered designs, trademarks, copyright and the law of
confidence are the more familiar examples. It has been reported that
for 70% of UK businesses, IP assets are more valuable than physical
assets.
2. Exploitation of Ministry of Defence (MOD) IP and access to others’
IP are essential if MOD’s mission is to be achieved. MOD has
developed the approach to its right to use others’ IP to take account of
changing circumstances, in particular towards procurement. MOD
rights to use others’ IP through contracts are secured using standard
defence conditions which are supplemented where appropriate with
bespoke conditions.
3. We have judged it appropriate to bring together in one document
the principles of MOD’s approach to IP to form a top level statement of
policy and to ensure that MOD’s approach is understood by its own
staff, industry, academia and others.

MOD Policy
4. MOD’s IP Policy Statement, which is consistent with MOD’s
Defence Industrial Policy and has been endorsed by Minister [DP], is
set out at Annex A.
5. The Policy Statement - which does not introduce any change in
MOD’s approach – comprises a number of Principles and Policies which,
amongst other things, set out clearly MOD’s approach to the
acquisition of user rights in, or in some circumstances ownership of,
intellectual property arising from contracts it funds, and how it will
treat other (background) IP owned by its contractors and suppliers.
The statement strikes a balance between MOD’s needs to deliver
1 of 3
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

military capability and industry’s commercial interests as a
consequence of their private venture investment.
Key points of the Policy Statement include:

7.

•

A statement of industry ownership of IP created under MOD
contracts with specific exceptions set out;

•

Recognition that MOD-funded R&T work should be fully
exploited not only for defence purposes but also for the
benefit of the wider UK economy;

•

Reinforcement of the policy to protect and enforce MOD’s IP
and emphasis of the serious view taken of any deliberate or
careless wrongful disclosure of IP;

•

Recognition of the need for incentives to encourage the
commercialisation of MOD-owned IP;

•

An assurance that MOD will only seek delivery of such
information from contractors that it genuinely needs for its
business purposes;

•

Recognition of the need to respect investment by industry;

•

A declaration that MOD will only disclose commercially
sensitive information where it has the right to do so and then
only with arrangements in place to protect the value of the
information (this does not affect MOD’s position under
Freedom of Information Act);

•

Refreshment and reinvigoration of our approach to the use of
intellectual property in international co-operation, particularly
by ensuring that international arrangements provide a proper
balance for disclosure or use of UK-origin IP and avoiding
arrangements which introduce undue risk from an IP
perspective;

•

Recognition that, whenever possible, MOD should consult
with industry before entering international arrangements
likely to lead to the disclosure of industry-supplied
information.

A more detailed summary of the Policy Statement is at Annex B.

2 of 3
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Consultation
8. Consultation has taken place with appropriate internal and
external stakeholders. Internal stakeholders are content. External
stakeholders have included the DTI, whose views on Policy 6 were
adopted, and industry. Inevitably there has been some nervousness
on the part of industry, and during the consultation process a number
of amendments were made to clarify the statement and to alleviate
industry’s concerns. A summary of industry’s concerns is at Annex C
together with an agreed MOD/Industry commentary on how these
have been addressed within the policy statement.

Action
9. All staff are to ensure that they comply with MOD’s IP policy in
their conduct of MOD’s business.

Publicity
10. The policy is being widely disseminated to industry via the usual
channels and further internal publicity will be by way of tri-fold
leaflets. Every opportunity will be taken to include topics from the
Policy Statement in professional talks and other seminars. The
material will also form the basis for internal training courses.

Further sources of advice
11. Advice on the application of MOD’s IP policy to specific cases
should be sought in the first instance from local Commercial staff.
Requests for clarification of the Policy Statement itself should be
directed to Defence Intellectual Property Rights (DIPR) - Ext: 32880
ABW.

3 of 3
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Annex A

MINISTRY OF DEFENCE (MOD) INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY RIGHTS - POLICY STATEMENT

GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Principle 1
Intellectual Property (IP) is a commercially valuable (intangible) asset
that for many businesses is more valuable than fixed (tangible) assets.
MOD's policies should recognise this value both for UK industry and
national defence capability.

Principle 2
Access to IP is essential to MOD's developing and sustaining defence
capability.

Principle 3
Ownership of IP arising under MOD contracts will normally vest with
the contractor generating the IP, in exchange for which MOD will
expect rights to disclose, use and have used the IP for UK Government
purposes (including security and civil defence).

Principle 4
MOD recognises the need to encourage private sector investment in
the generation of IP to enhance defence capability.

Principle 5
MOD will maintain a proper balance in its activities relating to IP
between, on the one hand, meeting its business needs including
fostering co-operation with allies, facilitating value for money in
defence acquisition, and safeguarding security of supply and, on the
other hand, safeguarding suppliers' interests in their IP.
A-4
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Principle 6
MOD's rights of access to, and use of, suppliers' IP will be limited to
that reasonably necessary to meet its business needs.

Principle 7
MOD will promote the widest use of defence funded IP for the benefit
of the wider UK economy.

Principle 8
The value of IP is such that it should be properly managed in a way
that is clear, consistent and traceable.

Principle 9
MOD will not normally disclose commercially valuable information
unless an arrangement is in place which seeks to conserve the value of
the information by setting out the rights granted to and the limitations
of use imposed on the recipient.

Policy 1 - Ownership of Intellectual Property in
Contracts
a. Contracts will normally provide that ownership of IP arising will
vest in the contractor but will be subject to rights of disclosure and use
for Government purposes as set out in the contracts.
b. Exceptions to the ownership arrangements of Policy 1a may occur,
for example:
(i) where the work is to be appropriately published by and under
the control of the Crown;
(ii) where the work is a national or international defence
standard;
(iii) where the work is based upon information made available to
the Crown in confidence by a third party, and exploitation by the
contractor would prejudice that confidence;
(iv) where a contract is let on the basis that the contractor is
unable or unwilling adequately to exploit the results of the
contract;
A-5
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

(v) where the work is part of a wider programme of related work
and fragmented ownership of results would prejudice exploitation
of the wider programme; or
(vi) where the contract is for the operation of a Government
owned facility; or
(vii) in respect of data outputs from infra-structure projects where
the customer would reasonably expect to have full control over
that data.
In these cases, ownership of the IP created will normally be vested in
the Secretary of State for Defence. Nonetheless, in such cases the
Secretary of State will not unreasonably prevent the contractor from
using the skills and expertise developed in carrying out such work
without charge for its internal business purposes.

Policy 2 - Treatment of IP arising from R&T work
funded by MOD
a. Information arising from R&T work funded by MOD will normally
be made available:
(i) for any internal UK Government purpose, include use through
external advisers;
(ii) to inform the UK defence supply chain and other
Governments about the work;
(iii) to meet other international obligations (see Policy 7); and
(iv) for use in defence capability acquisition for the UK
Government.
The depth of disclosure and terms under which this information is
made available will take account of the extent and sources of funding
for such work.
b. MOD will work with suppliers of R&T to ensure that they exploit
MOD-funded IP as fully as possible within the constraints of law and
other policies (such as those relating to security and export control).
Wider exploitation for the benefit of the UK economy and UK society as
a whole will be encouraged.
c. There will be a presumption in favour of granting requests to
transfer or grant exclusive licences in respect of contractor-owned IP
A-6
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

arising from R&T contracts if there is a reasonable prospect that the
proposed transaction is likely to optimise investment in and
exploitation of the results. In all such transactions MOD's interests
(including its ability to seek competitive bids for defence programmes)
should be safeguarded.

Policy 3 - Relations with employees (including the
Armed Services) and the Treatment of IP belonging to
MOD.
a. Consistent with IP law, IP created by MOD employees and
members of the Armed Forces in the course of their normal duties or
where they have special responsibilities to MOD will belong to the
Secretary of State for Defence. In all other cases, ownership will be
taken as belonging to the employee and will be treated in accordance
with the strategies for third party IP (see Policy 6 below).
b. MOD will manage IP arising internally as a valuable resource. It
will realise this value by maintaining and developing processes for
recording and protecting the IP and promoting the commercial use of
the IP by others where appropriate.
c. MOD will negotiate on a sound commercial basis for the use of
MOD IP by others. In the case of Crown Copyright material this will be
on the basis of standards generally agreed with the Comptroller HMSO.
d. MOD will maintain in place a scheme to reward its inventors from
the proceeds of exploitation of any MOD-owned inventions they make.
This scheme will aim to ensure compliance with Section 40 of the
Patents Act 1977.
e. Disclosures of MOD IP to third parties will only be made after
MOD’s position has been adequately protected, including by use of
confidentiality agreements.
f.
Wrongful or careless disclosure of valuable IP (whether belonging
to MOD or others) by employees is regarded as a serious disciplinary
offence.
g. MOD will enforce its IPR against persons who infringe, wrongfully
disclose or otherwise misuse its rights
h. Agreements to license out or assign MOD owned IP, or to license
in or acquire IPR will be signed or authorised on behalf of the
Secretary of State for Defence by the Director of Intellectual Property
A-7
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Rights. He/she may delegate signing or authorising powers to
properly qualified and experienced members of staff.
i.
MOD will maintain a central record of all its patents, registered
trade marks, registered designs, and its IPR transactions (other than
those that are part of day to day contracting arrangements) including
assignments, licences, and confidentiality agreements.

Policy 4 – Agencies
a. Policies 1 - 3 and 7 will apply to MOD Agencies in the same way
as they apply to MOD itself.
b. Where IP belonging to the Secretary of State for Defence has
arisen from an MOD Agency, the Agency will normally lead in
exploiting the technology (i.e. it will act as the nominal owner).
c. Agencies should ensure that such exploitation will not prejudice
wider MOD or Government objectives or embarrass the Secretary of
State for Defence.
d. Arrangements as between Agencies and MOD as a whole will
ensure that:
(i)

they are consistent with Policies 1, 2 and 3 above; and

(ii) requests for the transfers of or for the grant of exclusive
licences in Agency-controlled IP are handled in the same way as
contractor owned IP under Policy 2c.

Policy 5 - Acquisition of Defence Capability and
Infrastructure
a. Access to IP is an important factor in meeting MOD’s objectives of
developing, supplying, operating, supporting, upgrading and disposing
of UK defence capability and infrastructure as well as meeting
international co-operation objectives. MOD's policy is to meet these
objectives within the scope of the foregoing Principles.
b. MOD will seek the production and delivery of information,
normally from industrial sources, necessary to meet MOD IP user
requirements set out in Policy 5a.
c. MOD will normally only seek delivery of information from
contractors for which it can reasonably foresee a need. Contracts
should, as far as practicable, set out MOD’s information requirements.
A-8
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

If this is not possible, MOD may make reasonable arrangements to
obtain such further information that it needs and that is still
reasonably available to the contractor.
d. MOD will not normally pay for use of IP whose generation has
been fully funded by Government.
e. MOD may seek levy payment where MOD-funded IP is
commercially exploited by industry, for example through foreign
defence sales of equipment, software or processes or through licensing
of the IP to others.
f.
MOD will properly safeguard IP in its possession that belongs to
the private sector. Where disclosure to a third party is necessary, it
will only be to the extent that it has the right to do so or the legal or
statutory obligation to do so.
g. If MOD wishes to use specific identified non-MOD funded IP to
reproduce or Modify anything acquired from a supplier, MOD will
negotiate the terms and conditions for such use.
h. MOD will negotiate on the basis that other reasonable use of
information obtained from a supplier in connection with defence
capability and infrastructure acquisition will be without separate licence
payment.

Policy 6 - Third Party Intellectual Property
a. MOD will pursue national and international norms (especially
GATT/TRIPS articles 31 and 73) in securing rights to access third party
IP for its purposes.
b. Where MOD has statutory powers to use and authorise use of
third party IP, (e.g. as under Sections 55 to 57 of the Patents Act
1977), it will exercise such powers only after considering such use on
its individual merits, or where reasons of national security override.
c. MOD will normally seek an indemnity from suppliers in respect of
use by suppliers of third party IP in commercial products, or in
circumstances where the use of the third party IP is entirely within the
knowledge and control of the supplier.
d. MOD will indemnify suppliers in respect of their mandated use for
MOD purposes of information furnished by or on behalf of MOD.

A-9
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

e. MOD will expect its suppliers and other third parties to observe
high standards of conduct, probity and propriety in their access to or
use of any third party information provided by or on behalf of MOD,
and properly to safeguard such third party information against
wrongful use or disclosure. MOD will take action and may support
action against suppliers or other third parties who wrongly use or
disclose third party information provided by or on behalf of MOD.

Policy 7 - International
a. MOD will always strive to enter into international arrangements
involving IP that meet its short and long term goals and requirements,
including its acquisition, capability and information needs. MOD will
avoid entering international arrangements in which the IP provisions
conflict with the IP Principles and Policies expressed in this document.
b. MOD will promote IP policies and practices amongst other nations
and international organisations that will encourage confidence and
participation in co-operative programmes. MOD will avoid
arrangements requiring disclosure of commercially sensitive
information of UK origin unless it is satisfied that the recipient will
adequately safeguard the information.
c. Before entering any international arrangement that would lead to
disclosure of UK industry owned information (other than for foreign
Government defence information purposes), relevant industrial parties,
including Trade Associations, will normally be informed and given
reasonable opportunity to make representations about the
arrangement.
d. MOD will not commit to release commercially valuable information
outside the UK under any international arrangement unless there is a
reasonable balance of benefit to the UK arising from that release.
MOD will not commit itself through international arrangements to
disclose information that it has no right to disclose. MOD
organisations holding information should liaise1 internally, as
appropriate, to ensure that disclosure restrictions and controls are
correctly applied to information to be released under international
arrangements.
e. Where MOD supplies information abroad under an international
arrangement, it will take all reasonable steps to ensure that any
subsequent use or disclosure is in accordance with the terms of the
arrangement.
A-10
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

f.
Where MOD receives information from abroad under an
international arrangement, MOD will ensure that such information can
be traced and will take steps necessary to prevent any use or
disclosure that is not in accordance with the arrangement.

Policy 8 - Miscellaneous
a. MOD will put into the public domain information relating to its
general IP policies and specific information on its copyright licensing
arrangements and conditions of business with suppliers.
b. Wherever possible MOD will consult with interested parties in
formulating changes to its IP policy or when implementing part of the
IP policy through conditions of business.
c. MOD will normally give at least 3 months notice to interested
parties of any proposed change in an IP policy or related standard
condition of business.
d. MOD will meet its statutory obligations in respect of IP (e.g. under
Section 22 of the Patents Act 1977) in a way that promotes high
confidence amongst users of the UK IP system.

1

Currently with Department’s International Relations Group and Intellectual Property Rights Group, and
for Research and Technology: the International Research Co-operation branch.
A-11
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Annex B

SUMMARY OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
POLICY
The Nine Principles set the cornerstones of the policy. These note:
•

the value of IP;

•

the need to access IP;

•

ownership normally being with suppliers;

•

the need to encourage private investment to generate IP;

•

the need for balance between public policy and private
interests in IP;

•

MOD only to access others’ IP to meet its reasonable
business needs;

•

the need to maximise the benefit of defence funded IP;

•

the need to have proper IP management systems;

•

property protection when valuable information is disclosed.

Beneath the principles, a number of individual policies are developed;
Policy 1 develops the theme of leaving ownership with suppliers
whenever possible. There may be occasions when it is appropriate to
depart from the normal arrangements when, for policy reasons,
Government has to control fully the publication and use of
information, or when the supplier cannot exploit the IP arising form a
contract.
Policy 2 develops the broad themes within the Research and
Technology areas. This paragraph makes clear that we would
normally expect defence funded R&T information to be available for
explicit MOD purposes. It has been made clear that the extent of
MOD’s rights will be varied in accordance with the level of MOD
funding. Exploitation of defence funded R&T is a priority, and with
this in mind allows for exclusive licenses when this would encourage
investment and not interfere with MOD’s primary business.
B-1
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Policy 3 indicates that MOD will protect, record and enforce its
intellectual property and take action against those who infringe MOD’s
rights and will keep records of assignments, licences and like
Intellectual Property transactions. MOD will act in the same ways as
other responsible employers in respect of its IP relationships with
employees. Award schemes will be in place to recognise employee’s
work that has been of particular benefit to MOD. For exploitation,
there is a direct relationship between the income to MOD and the
benefit to the employee.
For the first time, it is being made clear that IP generated by
employees that would not be owned by MOD under the law will be
treated as privately owned. If MOD needed access to that IP, such
employees would get the same benefits as would a third party owner
of IP. In the past, MOD’s approach to this has been ambiguous
Policy 4 reiterates that MOD agencies are expected to follow the same
policies as MOD as a whole. Trading Fund agencies will retain income
generated from exploitation of IP arising in the agency concerned.
Policy 5 relates to the work of capability acquisition community. It
notes that achieving value for money is the bedrock of that business
and IP should be an enabler to achieve that. To do this the policy
notes the need to secure appropriate (but not excessive) technical
information from suppliers to compete, maintain equipment in service,
ensure supplies of spares, and permit all the myriad of other things
that have to be done to ensure the safe and smooth use of equipment.
Where MOD has paid for the generation of IP, MOD will not pay for its
subsequent use. However, it is recognised that where our suppliers
have generated relevant IP independent of MOD funding, and MOD
wants to use the IP to compete capability acquisition then reasonable
payments should be made for that right. This approach has been
inherent in MOD’s practices in many large projects, but this policy
statement emphasises the need for proper recognition of genuine
background IP.
Policy 6 restates MOD’s wish to behave reasonably in dealing with IP
from third parties. In accordance with agreed international standards,
it will only exercise Government statutory rights to use third party IP
when alternative options have been exhausted (or the requirement is
so sensitive that it cannot be discussed with the IP owner).
Policy 7 relating to international matters is probably the most
sensitive. There is a need to use information, sometimes from
B-2
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

industry, for international co-operation. However, we need to ensure
that it is properly protected by the recipient and only used for the
purpose intended. Equally, nations providing information to the UK
would wish to ensure that their information, too, is properly protected.
Key parts of the policy in this area note the need to avoid
arrangements that seek to pass information unless there is a clear
short or long term objective, and the terms of the arrangement are
directed to that objective. Arrangements should be balanced; the UK
should not commit to give information unless there is appropriate
benefit to the UK. Although not overtly stated in the policy, we should
take the view that promises of information that are subject a country’s
release provisions (e.g. US ITARs) before arriving in the UK would be
treated with caution when considering this balance.
Policy 8 relates to provision of public information about our policy and
an assurance of adequate notice to stakeholders before changes are
made.

B-3
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

Annex C

CONSULTATION WITH INDUSTRY
Key Issues raised by industry: During the consultation phase on
the Intellectual Policy document, Industry expressed concern in four
main areas:
•
the possibility of Government ownership of contractor
generated IP in some circumstances (Policy 1b);
•
the balance between Industry interests and public policy
(Principle 5 and Policies 5a);
•

information requirements (Policy 5c);

•

international issues (Policy 7).

Response: The following language has been agreed with industry as
reflecting industry’s worries and MOD’s response.
Government ownership in some circumstances:
Industry is also concerned that the circumstances in which
Government ownership of IP may apply (Policy 1b) are, in places,
identified in very broad terms and that MOD should not abuse its
position. Industry remains concerned that with the advent of new
technology these provisions may be used in inappropriate
circumstances. Industry does accept, however, that in a minority
of cases government ownership of IP may be necessary. Whilst
MOD may require IPR ownership in some cases to meet its
operational requirements, it is not its intention to seek ownership
of databases where the data underlying a project belongs to its
contractor.
Public Policy v Private Interests
Industry is inevitably concerned that the balance between public
policy and its private interests is correct. It is also concerned that
inconsistencies between different aspects of public policy can
cause problems. The policy statement recognises that MOD needs
access to Industry owned intellectual property to successfully
conduct its acquisition policies. But the policy does try to strike a
balance by making it clear that access is that “reasonably
C-1
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

necessary” (Principle 6). Policy 5f and g also state that MOD will
only do what it has the right to do and will pay a royalty if
information is used for MOD manufacturing purposes.
These policies will place business-like restraints on MOD, making
use of proprietary information expensive to support competition
for the manufacture of articles and impossible in some cases
where MOD does not have the necessary rights. But the policy
should enable MOD to ensure continuity of supply in most projects
where that is important. Therefore, the policy strikes a sensible
balance between these interests, with financial and other
constraints if MOD was minded to behave unreasonably.
Information Requirements
On deliverable information, (Policy 5c), it is not reasonable for
MOD to expect Industry to keep and provide all information that
might be relevant to MOD interests. This would be very
expensive both to MOD and Industry. However, both parties do
need to know at the outset the exact extent of any proprietary
information that is required to be delivered. On the other hand,
there have been occasions, particularly when MOD is entering a
long-term relationship with Industry, when it is impossible to
predict long term information needs. Situations will also arise
where, with the best will in the world, both sides will have
overlooked something. Policy 5c seeks to steer MOD and Industry
towards clearly identifying information needs at the outset of a
relationship, but recognises that this may not always be possible.
MOD believes this to be the right approach.
International Issues
UK Industry has long been concerned about the potential for
industry’s commercially valuable technology to leak to foreign
competitors through international co-operation arrangements.
Although there is little evidence of leaks of this kind, the policy
statement does contain a number of safeguards to minimise the
chance of this occurring. These include:
•
a requirement for proper release conditions (Principle 9
and Policy 7d to be applied to information going abroad;
•
a requirement that any arrangement in which IP is to be
disclosed to support MOD business goals complies with
standards set out in the policy statement (Policies 7a and e);
C-2
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Intellectual Property Rights – Overview and Policy – Statement of MOD Policy - Last Updated 01/10/07

•
a requirement that other nations should properly protect
IP (Policy 7b);
•
consultation with Industry before entering the majority
of arrangements involving disclosure of industry origin
information (Policy 7c); and
•

reciprocity (Policy 7d).

Proper application of these safeguards should prevent leakages
and misuse of Industry information.

C-3
Source: The Commercial Toolkit (CMT)
Available via http://aof.uwh.diif.r.mil.uk or https://www.gov.uk/acquisition-operating-framework

